django-linestripper
====================

django-linestripper removes blank / empty / whitespaced lines generated by template tags.

Compatibility:
--------------

django == 1.4

Example
-------

### Template ###

     <h1>My list</h1>

     <ul>
     {% for item in items %}
         <li>{{ item }}</li>
     {% endfor %}
     </ul>

### Rendered without django-linestripper ###

    <h1>My list</h1>

    <ul>

        <li>item 1</li>

        <li>item 2</li>

        <li>item 3</li>

    </ul>
    
### Rendered with django-linestripper ###

    <h1>My list</h1>

    <ul>
        <li>item 1</li>
        <li>item 2</li>
        <li>item 3</li>
    </ul>

Setup instructions
------------------

 * Put the `django_linestripper` folder at the root of your app structure
 * Edit `settings.py`:
  * In `TEMPLATE_LOADERS`, add `django_linestripper.stripper.Loader` as the **first** loader
  * In `MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES`, put `django_linestripper.stripper.StripperMiddleware` wherever you want
 * You're done !
 
Advanced usage
--------------

The following constants can be overriden in `settings.py`:

#### `STRIPPER_ENABLED` ####

*defaults to `True`*

Indicates weither django-linestripper is enabled or not.

#### `STRIPPER_TAG` ####

*defaults to `"__STRIPPER_TAG__"`*

A unique string that you don't use in your templates. It will be suppressed by the django-linestripper middleware.

#### `STRIPPER_CLEAR_LINE` ####

*defaults to `False`*

Clear every non-generated whitespace metacharacter before `\n`. For instance:

##### With `STRIPPER_CLEAR_LINE = False` #####
    \n\t\t\t\n
    => \n\t\t\t\n
    
##### With `STRIPPER_CLEAR_LINE = True` #####
    \n\t\t\t\n
    => \n\n
    
How it works
------------

 * Step 1: tag empty lines with `__STRIPPER_TAG__`    
 * Step 2: wait for the rendered template
 * Step 3: suppress blank lines and suppress `__STRIPPER_TAG__`
 
Known bugs
----------

If your rendered template isn't part of the HttpResponse, the stripper middleware won't intercept the rendering.
It can be a pain if you're using templates as mail templates.

Notes
-----

This [thread](https://code.djangoproject.com/ticket/2594) on DjangoProject.com talks about the subject in a very precise manner. A patch has been submitted but the validation process is very long. Please do not hesitate in contacting me when this whitespace issue is resolved.

License
-------

I always dreamed of doing that.

                DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO PUBLIC LICENSE 
                        Version 2, December 2004 

    Copyright (C) 2012 Loïs Di Qual <lois[at]di-qual.net> 

    Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim or modified 
    copies of this license document, and changing it is allowed as long 
    as the name is changed. 

           DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO PUBLIC LICENSE 
      TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION 

    0. You just DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO.